This document explains the steps necessary to setup the Mintupdate-ni OS
version update on the Master and the Minions of a Linux Mint Farm. The
first step is to decide which disk to use on the minions for a timeshift
backup. If the farm is comprised of the same hardware (i.e, all minions
run on the same hardware), then the setup procedure can pick a disk to
use for each minion machine. For example, suppose all minions run on a
laptop that has only one disk installed. Then it is only necessary to
find out the disk on which '/' is mounted. This is possible by logging
on to one of the laptops and running:

df -h | grep '/$' | sed 's/ .*//'

The result will be the disk identifier of the root partition.

You can execute this command (without logging into the minion) from the master using the cmd.run salt command:

sudo salt <minion-id> cmd.run "df -h | grep '/$' | sed 's/ .*//'"

where <minion-id> is the identifier of the minion you are testing.

Once the disk is identified, it is necessary to set a grain on each
minion to that disk identifier. The grain has the identifier
'timeshift-disk'. To set the grain on each minion, at a command prompt use:

sudo salt '*' grains.setval timeshift-disk <disk_identifier>

For example, if the disk identier is /dev/sda, execute the command"

sudo salt '*' grains.setval timeshift-disk /dev/sda

If the farm you manage has minions running on different hardware, you
must determine the timeshift disk for each hardware type. Then run the
salt command, selecting those minions that run on each type and setting
the grain to the appropriate disk identifier. For example, suppose the
farm has minions running on two types of hardware. Select a minion that
runs on each type and determine the timeshift disk. That is, if the
minions have only one disk, run:

df -h | grep '/$' | sed 's/ .*//' (directly)

or

sudo salt <minion-id> cmd.run "df -h | grep '/$' | sed 's/ .*//'" (from the master)

on a minion of each hardware type. Then run the grains setval command,
selecting the minions that run on the first type and then run it again
selecting the minions that run on the second type.

For example, suppose the farm has two hardware types. The minions
running on the first type are 'farm[0-5]' and the minions running on the
second type are 'farm[6-10]'. Suppose the timeshift disk for minions of
the first hardware type is /dev/sda and for the second hardware type is
/dev/sdb. Then to set the grains on the minions, run the following two
salt commands:

sudo salt 'farm[0-5]' grains.setval timeshift-disk /dev/sda
sudo salt 'farm[6-10]' grains.setval timeshift-disk /dev/sdb

